# Individual Capstone Assessment
Our proposed project is to build a nerf turret that utilizes facial recognition software that we develop. This system will "spot" a face that it doesn't recognize and will then fire at the unsuspecting victim. We all are computer science students so we all have sufficient programming knowledge and experience to write the software. I think we will learn applicable skills such as machine learning for the facial recognition and different things related to pulling the trigger and controlling when the trigger gets pulled. We all may have a bit of a lack in the hardware department since we are all computer science, however I have used Raspberry Pi's and Arduino's in a previous class as well as a club I was in that developed a high altitude balloon payload and mission and used both an Arduino and a Raspberry Pi for the payload. But I may have some knowledge on how to use these small PCB's to manage the physical system.

One of the main things that goes into getting this turret to work is a working AI that uses a camera input to determine if a person is recognized or not. I think the class CS 4033 AI: Principles and Applications will help with laying the ground work for the AI as well as the dirty work of getting it to work. Another class that will be used is EECE 3093C Software Engineering. This class should be the guide to creating our software. A class that I'm currently in I think could help, it is CS 5127 Requirements Engineering. It should provide some general understanding of the structure of our project and the way to tackle the problem we are trying to solve.

During my co-op I learned some skills that I think will come in handy during this project. Non-technical skills that I learned such as communication and leadership on a project will help move this project along well and will help with working with people on this project. I worked on an application essentially by myself. I was given a web that had the bare bones and I pretty much made the application. I think my knowledge from actually working will also help. In the technical sense I am a Microsoft Certified Professional in C#. I received this certificate after months of preparing for the exam. I think this could help with the back-end, dirty work of the application. In the web apps that I made on c-op C# was the dirty work of the application, the back-end code that manipulated data, connected to databases, and I think that could help me to make the dirty work or back end stuff working. My job on co-op was a Web Developer. I worked at a small consulting company in West Chester called Fortech LLC.

I am excited about this project for a couple reasons. One of these reasons is that I am genuinely passionate about security. Not necessarily safety, but like security for our nation, my home, and my family. I think this project will give me just a small taste into developing security systems and solutions to potential safety and security issues. I plan on making my own things relating to this, but more complex and for various things. Another reason I am excited to work on this project is that it is going to be the thing I think I will remember the most from my classes and accomplishments while in college. This project can and will be something that I can be proud of, my team mates can be proud of, and our families can proud of. I think these projects should have aspects of these things and should be fun and interesting for everyone involved as well. This will definitely be fun to build and test out and mess around with. The preliminary approach we have for this project is to determine everything we will need and won't need and what could potentially be cut from a final design to minimize cost and still make a good product.

My expectations for this project are that we are going to be able to detect an unknown face and fire the nerf gun. Specifics for each person that I hope to see are currently unknown as nothing in this regard has been discussed. I think I will be evaluating myself and contributions based on how much code I've written, how much time I spent on the project, and how much of the physical turret is built and eventually functional. There may be things that I do in a subjective manner such as if I was able to help the rest of the group on their part of the code or in the case of the other turret builder how much we help each other in building it I guess. I may also evaluate on how the rest of my group feels about their work and views the project and time and the project progress. I think using a date to say when something is done isn't a good way to say something is done. I think to say it is done means different things. It could be code without bugs, it could be when initial requirements are met, it could be a whole host of things. However, I think for us to say our project is done probably falls in line with the initial requirements being met. Once these requirements (or goals) are met and it is with as little as possible sacrifice from the original goal and is successfully working, we can say we did a good job and our project is complete.


